hello everyone dokie 989 here and today
I am giving you a brand new minecraft
Xbox one video on how to improve your
internet connection how to host servers
on Minecraft Xbox one it's a little
harder than you would think and there's
a lot more you can do to actually
improve your connection and have more
players play and make it overall just a
better experience for you and on
multiplayer so first stuff we're going
to be talking about what is a server on
minecraft Xbox one so you may be having
that questions and some may think that
it's like minecraft PC where you type in
a IP address you connect to the server
and you're on with hundreds of other
players unfortunately that is not the
case yet my Mojang and 4j Studios who
developed the game and ported the game
for Minecraft of course are working on
making multiplayer larger but as of
right now in January of 2015 you can
only have 8 players and that is bound to
change in the future so if you're
watching this video in May or the summer
or even next fall please note that that
number may have changed so don't be
silly and post a comment saying that's
not true you can have 16 players because
obviously it's going to change but I
don't know that because I am in January
so umm hosting servers are a little
harder than you might have thought
especially since there are a lot of lag
issues and most of them have been fixed
in some of the newer updates but players
still have lag on minecraft Xbox 360
Xbox one PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4
so here are some ways to improve your
internet connection to reduce lag to
have more chunks load in to generally
make your experience better than this is
one of the key issues on how to host
servers for Minecraft Xbox one where
your internet is located where you're
connected to your interests so pretty
much where your router is the router is
a little box that you connect to
wireless it wirelessly or wired Ethernet
cable now if you are on a wireless
network if your Xbox Live is picked
through a wireless network one of the
issues with that is that the wireless
signals that are being sent out from
your router it may not be as strong
let's say
your Wi-Fi router is upstairs in the
addict and you're playing on the
opposite side of house in the basement
just too far away so the signal strength
is going to be very weak making the
connection slower so if you are on a
wireless device or wireless router make
sure to have that Xbox as close as you
can to that router so that you can
maximize the strength of the routers
connectivity level and to make sure that
you're not gonna have any drops in
connection or any future connection
problems especially with them slow chunk
loading times but I would recommend
using an internet cable an Ethernet
cable to connect your router directly to
your Xbox you will not have to worry
about that that pretty much makes life a
lot easier
most of those wired connections were
used for computers back in the day
before wireless we're back on our wee
little kid um so ask your parents if you
have one maybe you can set one up but of
course that's something that if you're
younger that you need parents motion to
obviously do it just because you know
rather be safe than sorry so that brings
us off to our second point which is
pretty much um you want to make sure
that you have no other devices connected
to the router or limit the amount of
devices connected to your router when
you're playing on a multiplier are
hosting a Minecraft Xbox one map with
that said you do not want to be
streaming a movie and have five iPads on
at the same time while you're trying to
play Minecraft and host the map pretty
much because the bandwidth that is being
used which is sound like the highway for
the data to reach your Xbox and bounce
back from your Xbox to a router to be
sent off into the Internet um it's
taking up some of that energy I'd call
it and taking up that energy because it
needs that energy to stream and you only
have so much energy that you can use so
you want to allocate as much of that as
you can to the Xbox one
of course to maximize your connection to
make sure that you don't drop or have
any internet problems now my last advice
I have for you is um pretty much be
careful who you are inviting through the
game as a youtuber I play with kids all
around the world and of course the
internet connection it's gonna be a lot
harder to play with if someone's playing
in New Zealand you have a kid in Spain
in America then you have a kid and let's
say Africa and then you have another kid
in Asia if you have that connection all
over the place your connection is just
going to be pretty poor just because
it's spread out thousands of miles
across the globe um so maybe if you want
you don't have that great internet maybe
limits only us players you want to get
even more specific only east coast or
west coast players if you're in Britain
maybe only Britain kids and England kids
can play maybe the Scots um and if
you're also also and like hooks
Australia or New Zealand you'd normally
like those people play and that pretty
much limits any connection lag that you
might have or other players may
experience of course I wouldn't
recommend exercise like this you know
options open especially when your target
players in but of course that that is
movies and so be it if you want to check
out how powerful your in creative go to
speedtest.net that'll easily tell you
how many megabytes you get uploaded and
downloaded in your ping which is the
amount of time it takes for a signal to
reach your house router so that thing
that connects your house to the Internet
to a let's say Verizon server that is um
managing all of the internet connections
in a certain region obviously you would
want to have a ping in milliseconds
usually a good pain would be 10
milliseconds so it takes head
millisecond seconds from a signal from
your house to reach a server for a
internet company let's say maybe 40
miles away and then bounce all the way
back it's pretty impressive but um of
course that's the time delay that you're
going to have with any action you do so
if you let's say shoot a gun in Call of
Duty you press the trigger button and
you see the shot fire on your screen and
you have a ping of let's say 30
milliseconds it's going to take maybe
even more 30 milliseconds plus for that
shot to register on everyone else's um
Xbox one and that's kind of that how
that works and obviously I can get into
more specifics but you guys don't really
need to worry about that obviously if
you have a high ping you might be having
some problems with breaking blocks so
you might break the block and then
reappear so you try and put down a block
and then it disappears that obviously is
very frustrating in Minecraft and
something you will experience you to
players having a bad connection and a
high ping so if you have any other
questions or concerns make sure to
subscribe to my channel dokie 989 drop a
like on this video if you found it
helpful and if you again you have any
comments or questions or concerns feel
free to leave it in the comments section
below I will be more than happy to
answer any questions you may have with
that guys make sure to follow me on
Twitter to find out when I will be
hosting my own minecraft servers at
dokey 99 and if you play on minecraft PC
check out mine Jim calm which is ran by
me and Palmer Reiter and that's that
guys have a wonderful day
peace